How AWS is helping Companies?
Today we are going to know “How AWS is helping Companies??”


Amazon Web Services offers reliable, scalable, and inexpensive cloud computing services. Free to join, pay only for what you use.

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the world’s leading cloud computing service provider. It has grown to be the most profitable arm of the behemoth that is Amazon, and businesses around the world have grown to know and trust Amazon as their preferred cloud service provider.

Back in 2004, Amazon launched Simple Queue Service (SQS) as the first building block that would become AWS. Two years later in 2006, they released Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), their seminal cloud service storage solution, and Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) allowing businesses to build applications fully in the cloud.

Today this list of services has expanded to hundreds of different products. These include services for containers, customer service, storage, identity management, robotics, VR and AR, IoT, databases, and even quantum computing. You’re hard pressed to find a problem that AWS does not have a first-party solution for.

Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS) is a subsidiary of Amazon that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered, pay-as-you-go basis. Often times, clients will use this in combination with autoscaling (a process that allows a client to use more compute in times of high application usage, and then scale down to reduce costs when there is less traffic).

These cloud computing web services provide various services related to networking, compute, storage, middleware, IOT and other processing capacity, as well as software tools via AWS server farms. This frees clients from managing, scaling, and patching hardware and operating systems.

The Top 10 Most Used AWS Services are

1. Amazon EC2

2. Amazon RDS

3. Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)

4. Amazon CloudFront

5. Amazon VPC ·

6.Amazon SNS

7.AWS Beanstalk

8.AWS Lambda

9.AWS Auto Scaling

10.IAM

Goldman Sachs on AWS
Goldman Sachs builds on Amazon Web Services (AWS) to help advance its business and accelerate innovation for its customers. Using the cloud, Goldman Sachs has transformed the way it operates internally — from automated digital forensics to digital supply chain and procurement — and externally by serving customers through innovations such as the Goldman Sachs Financial Cloud for Data, which is a suite of cloud-based data and analytics solutions for financial institutions that integrates with AWS Data Exchange. It helps financial institutions securely integrate data alongside Goldman Sachs’s curated financial markets data to improve decision making.


Goldman Sachs’s Cloud Journey on AWS

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment bank that has leveraged Amazon Web Services (AWS) to support its transformation to a digital business. Here’s a case study on how Goldman Sachs used AWS:

Goldman Sachs has a significant presence in the financial industry, with over 36,000 employees in more than 30 countries. In recent years, the company has made a concerted effort to modernize its technology infrastructure and move to the cloud to gain agility, scalability, and cost savings.

One of the key initiatives that Goldman Sachs has undertaken is the development of its Marquee platform. Marquee is a cloud-based platform that provides clients with access to the bank’s research, trading, and risk management tools. To build Marquee, Goldman Sachs turned to AWS.

AWS provided a scalable, reliable, and secure cloud infrastructure that enabled Goldman Sachs to rapidly build and deploy Marquee. The platform uses a variety of AWS services, including Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), and Amazon Elastic Load Balancing.

By using AWS, Goldman Sachs was able to build a highly available and scalable platform that can handle the massive amounts of data generated by the bank’s trading and risk management operations. AWS also provided Goldman Sachs with the flexibility to rapidly deploy new features and services to its clients, allowing the bank to stay competitive in a rapidly evolving industry.

In addition to Marquee, Goldman Sachs has also used AWS for a number of other initiatives. For example, the company used AWS to build a platform for managing and analyzing data from its risk management systems, as well as for developing and testing new trading algorithms.

Overall, Goldman Sachs’ use of AWS has enabled the bank to accelerate its digital transformation and deliver new products and services to its clients faster than ever before. By leveraging the scalability, reliability, and security of AWS, Goldman Sachs has been able to focus on innovation and growth, while leaving the heavy lifting of infrastructure management to AWS.

